Suppose a teammate
and I are building a new website as my first
development project. I've set up my repository on GitHub and I've
added my first file, but now I'm ready to work
with my teammate on the site. In this video, you'll learn
how to collaborate on GitHub. Let's get started. I've already logged into my GitHub account, and I'm on the code tab of
the project repository. This tab shows me
all the code in my repository and gives me
options for managing it. To add my teammate as a
collaborator on my repository, I'll select the settings tab. Adding a collaborator on GitHub allows them
to contribute to the project by pushing
changes, managing branches, reviewing code,
and participating in project discussions, so I'll be sure to
only add teammates I know and want working
on the repository. Next, I'll select collaborators
from the side menu. To begin adding my teammate, I'll select add people, a screen will pop up to add a collaborator to
the website project. Here I'll type in
the user name of my teammate, which
is discipula0619. When the correct
user name appears, I'll select it from the list. Finally, I'll select the add discipula0619 to the
repository button, this will send an invitation to my teammate to collaborate
on the repository. Once I invite my teammate
to the repository, they need to accept
the invitation. Until they accept,
they will show as pending in my
collaborator's dashboard. Once they accept, their status will change to collaborator. Now that I've added my teammate, I can start creating
and tracking issues. I select the issues tab
to set up my first issue. Issues in GitHub are a
tool for tracking bugs, suggesting features and
managing project tasks. The website my
teammate and I are creating needs the
homepage to be structured. I create an issue for this by selecting the new issue button. On the next screen,
I'll add a title, the title should be
descriptive but concise. I'll name the issue, feature
structure homepage layout. Next, I'll add a description of the task and any requirements. In the description
box for this issue, I'll add task, create the
basic layout for the homepage. Details, header section
with navigation menu, section with background
image and headline, content section,
and footer section. Requirements, ensure
the layout is responsive for mobile
and desktop views. I can also add images or files
such as design documents. I want to add a design document that shows the
design of the page, so I select paste, drop, or click to add files. I select the correct
file and select open. After I've added the file, I need to add details
of the issue. I select assignees and
choose from the list. I'm able to choose
anyone that is a collaborator in my repository. Next, I select labels. Since this is a new feature,
I select enhancement. Since I do not have any
repository assigned any projects or milestones,
I'll skip those for now. To finalize the issue, I will then select,
submit new issue. Notice the issue
appears on a new page. It has a status of open, it includes the
information that I added, as well as an area for comments. It also includes a section
called development that allows me or a collaborator to create a branch
for this issue. Now, suppose my
teammate has done some development
work on the issue, they committed their code and are ready to create
a pull request. A pull request in
GitHub is a proposal to merge changes from
one branch into another, allowing for code review and discussion
before integration. I'm going to switch
over to my teammates account and create
a pull request. To do so, I go to the pull
request tab then I can select compare and
pull requests that are featured for the new
branch that was created. In a pull request, the base is the branch where you want
to merge your changes, and the compare is
the branch that contains the changes you
want to merge into the base. I double check that the
base branch is main, and the compare
branch is the branch my teammate was working
on, descipula branch. Then I add a clear
descriptive title like feature add header section
with navigation menu. Next, I'll add a description, the description should
include a summary, details, and any testing
criteria for a pull request. For this pull request,
I'll add summary, this pull request
adds a header section with a navigation menu
to the home page. Details create a fixed
header with the sites logo, add a responsive navigation
menu with links to home, about, services, and
contact sections. Testing, ensure the header is visible and fixed at
the top of the page. Verify that the navigation link scroll to the appropriate
sections on the page, check the responsiveness of the header on different
screen sizes. Then I'll double check
who the reviewer is. I verify that it is my
account, learner 0615. I select request to
request the review. Code reviews are important
for maintaining code quality, so it's important to have
someone review your code. Finally, I select create pull request to
create the request. Now, I'll switch back
to my GitHub account to review the code and
merge the changes. I've received a
notification that my teammate has requested a
review of their pull request. I select, add your review
to begin my code review. I read through the new
code and do a review. I'm checking for code
correctness, readability, adherence to coding standards, potential impact, and the impact on existing
functionality. I noticed that the
code is accurate, but my teammate did not add a shop navigation item to
the top level navigation. I select review changes
to leave feedback. I will also add a
detailed comment about the missing
navigation item. Since the rest of the code is
correct, I select approve. This will submit the
feedback to my teammate, but also approve merging the existing changes
to the main branch. Merging is the process of combining changes from
one branch into another, typically, integrating new
code into the main branch. Then I select the
submit review button this takes me back
to the pull request. Even though I
approve the changes, it did not automatically
merge the changes. To merge the changes,
I select merge, pull request, and then
select, confirm merge. There's now a button
to delete branch, but I won't do that. Today, you learned
how to collaborate on a GitHub project from adding collaborators
and managing issues to creating pull requests, and conducting code reviews. These tools and processes
are essential for effective teamwork
and maintaining code quality in any
development project.