The learning experience in this course is
designed to give you a comprehensive understanding of key concepts through
various learning methods. You'll be guided through
interactive engaging materials that help you build practical
and theoretical knowledge. Whether you're interested
in front-end, back-end, or full-stack development, this program has the tools to support your growth
every step of the way. Throughout the course,
you'll be introduced to core concepts and key
ideas and videos. These videos are designed to help you understand definitions, processes, and essential
steps clearly and concisely. You'll get to absorb
foundational knowledge, setting the stage for deeper exploration as you move forward. When you need step
by step guidance, screencasts will provide you with a detailed practical view. These screencasts will
show you exactly what's on the screen and how to work
through specific coding tasks. The course also
includes readings that reinforce the key ideas
presented in the videos. These readings are more than
just supplementary material. They're job aids. You can print them
out and use them as a reference while working on
assignments or activities, helping to apply what
you've learned in real world situations
more easily. Small activities are
included to help you check your
understanding of key ideas. These activities provide quick,
interactive opportunities to practice what
you've just learned. After completing each activity, you can compare your work with a fully explained
example and answer key. This ensures that you always know if your answer is correct. Practical experience
doing tasks you would in a job within
this field is essential, and that's where
guided labs come in. These labs take you through the implementation of different
concepts step by step. As you work, you'll receive
feedback and helpful hints, ensuring you can get the help
you need when you need it. It's the perfect
opportunity to practice in a controlled environment
while learning by doing. After completing
the guided labs, you'll move on to independent
projects or You Try It!. This is where you'll put
your skills to the test, applying what you've
learned in the labs. You'll work through
real world problems, cementing your understanding
of the course material. The course will culminate
in a practical project, leveraging Microsoft
Copilot that you can use as a portfolio artifact when you begin your job search
in this field. As you progress
through the program, the portfolio pieces will become stronger and better
representations of the authentic
experience you've gained. They'll showcase your
understanding of code and the ability to implement different concepts from
the developer program. This course guides you step by step from understanding
concepts through videos and readings
to apply them in activities,
screencasts and labs. Each part of the course
builds on the last helping you gain knowledge
and authentic experience. By the end, you'll
have completed real projects that not
only showcase your skills, but can also be included in your portfolio as you
start your career. Everything you do here
will prepare you for success as a developer.
Let's get started.