[MUSIC] Welcome to the foundations
of coding front-end course. This course will equip you with key
skills in front-end development, including fundamental principles,
project planning, logical problem-solving, and the use of algorithms,
control structures and functions. You'll gain practical experience
creating efficient and dynamic web solutions, setting you up for
success in front-end development. We'll start by covering the core
principles of front-end development and the role of front-end engineers. You'll learn how to plan front-end
projects, understand key tasks, and use Git and GitHub for version control,
including creating a project plan and repository. Next, we'll explore logical processes and
their role in programming. You'll apply deductive reasoning,
break down complex problems and practice top-down and
bottom-up strategies, including writing pseudocode for
different scenarios. Then we'll cover algorithm structures,
including if/then statements and binary logic. You'll use flowcharts to map out logical
steps, identify key data types, and learn to declare variables in C#
while implementing a simple algorithm. Next, we'll define basic control
structures like if-else statements and switch cases, and
see how they handle decision making. We'll then cover loops-such as for
while and do-while- and their role in managing repetitive tasks. Finally, you'll practice combining
these elements in coding exercises. Next, we will explore using functions
to create reusable cold blocks and understand methods in C#, including
their definition, syntax and use cases. You will learn to call methods and handle
parameters to pass data effectively. Finally, we will develop simple
programs that utilize functions and methods to solve problems. Finally, you will apply the concepts,
strategies and skills learned throughout the course to develop
a code project with heat components, including if/else statements, loops,
conditionals, functions and variables. Throughout this course, you will
acquire fundamental skills in front-end development, including project planning,
logical problem-solving, and using algorithms and control structures. You will be proficient in
applying functions and methods to build dynamic
web solutions by the end. We look forward to supporting you as
you develop your front-end development expertise, and successfully create
efficient web applications. [MUSIC]